about/characters.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Characters
---

{% include toc/about.md %}

*Post-Self,* as a collaborative effort, does have some characters that may be used in works to add some consistency to the end products. Using them is *not* required, not by any stretch, but they're here if you'd like. If you have a good idea for a character, feel free to add it to the list!

<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->

### Dear
{: class="clearfix" }

Name
:   Dear, Also, The Tree That Was Felled -  of the Ode Clade

    Or just Dear.

Pronouns
:   [it/it/its/itself](http://pronoun.is/it)

Dissolution strategy
:   Dispersionista

Occupation
:   Dear is an instance artist. It gains reputation by doing neat things with instances and recording, writing about, and otherwise disseminating its experiences. It has lately been experimenting with different ways of making its sensorium abstract enough to allow others to merge it or its created instances. Keep it on the down-low, but it has also been attempting to hack a means of octopus merging, allowing multiple instances to be merged into a new and completely different instance.

Entries
:   *None yet*

### Ioan Balan

Name
:   Ioan Balan ['jo an bə 'lan]

Pronouns
:   [ey/em/eir/eirself](http://pronoun.is/ey)

Dissolution strategy
:   Tasker

Occupation
:   Writer, blogger, and historian.

Entries
:   *None yet*

### {% include names/qian-guowei %}
{: id="qian-guowei" }

Name
:   {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.zh }} - <span class="sans-serif">[t͡ɕʰi:an gʷo we:i]</span> (surname: {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}, given name: {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }})

Pronouns
:   {% include names/qian-guowei %}#core: he/him/his/himself; instances vary

Dissolution strategy
:   Tasker

Occupation
:   Assassin. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}#core works as an employee for a reputation exchange organization, as far as he knows. His employer often requires that he fork an instance for 'travel' to other sims. The instance is actually taken away and giving the task of assassinating a target, and then terminated. The 'exchange' prevents any merger and the instance is terminated. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }} believes this is for client confidentiality. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }} suspects foul play.

Meta
:   For ease of use, name includes can be used:

    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.ah }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.zh }}

Entries
:   *None yet*

Commit message:

Appearance notes, update OG stuff.

about/characters.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Characters
---

{% include toc/about.md %}

*Post-Self,* as a collaborative effort, does have some characters that may be used in works to add some consistency to the end products. Using them is *not* required, not by any stretch, but they're here if you'd like. If you have a good idea for a character, feel free to add it to the list!

<!-- Please keep this list alphabetical -->

### Dear
{: class="clearfix" }

Name
:   Dear, Also, The Tree That Was Felled -  of the Ode Clade

    Or just Dear.

Pronouns
:   [it/it/its/itself](http://pronoun.is/it)

Appearance
:   Dear's instance is modeled after that of a now-extinct animal known as a fennec fox, a member of the vulpine family adapted to desert living. Dear has modified the original form to be more akin to that of humans. The iridescent white fur appears to have been a happy mistake.

Dissolution strategy
:   Dispersionista

Occupation
:   Dear is an instance artist. It gains reputation by doing neat things with instances and recording, writing about, and otherwise disseminating its experiences. It has lately been experimenting with different ways of making its sensorium abstract enough to allow others to merge it or its created instances. Keep it on the down-low, but it has also been attempting to hack a means of octopus merging, allowing multiple instances to be merged into a new and completely different instance.

Entries
:   *None yet*

### Ioan Balan

Name
:   Ioan Balan ['jo an bə 'lan]

Pronouns
:   [ey/em/eir/eirself](http://pronoun.is/ey)

Appearance
:   Ioan is a short, slightly pudgy person of indistinct gender. Ey has bought into the identity of academic wholeheartedly, dressing in argyle vests over linen shirts, aiming for either cotton or corduroy slacks.

Dissolution strategy
:   Tasker

Occupation
:   Writer, blogger, and historian.

Entries
:   *None yet*

### {% include names/qian-guowei %}
{: id="qian-guowei" }

Name
:   {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.zh }} - <span class="sans-serif">[t͡ɕʰi:an gʷo we:i]</span> (surname: {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}, given name: {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }})

Pronouns
:   {% include names/qian-guowei %}#core: he/him/his/himself; instances vary

Appearance
:   {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.guowei }} is a tall and slender chinese gentleman. He has to dress well for work, but tends to add his own snappish flair, black suit-jackets piped with sky blue, or lapels bright orange on the underside to match silk linings.

Dissolution strategy
:   Tasker

Occupation
:   Assassin. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}#core works as an employee for a reputation exchange organization, as far as he knows. His employer often requires that he fork an instance for 'travel' to other sims. The instance is actually taken away and giving the task of assassinating a target, and then terminated. The 'exchange' prevents any merger and the instance is terminated. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }} believes this is for client confidentiality. {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }} suspects foul play.

Meta
:   For ease of use, name includes can be used:

    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.given }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.family }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.full }}
    * `{% raw %}{{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.ah }}{% endraw %}` - {{ site.data.characters.qian-guowei.name.zh }}

Entries
:   *None yet*
