about/universe.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: The Post-Self Universe
---

The *Post-Self* universe is far down a timeline from our own. Uploading of conscious entities (sensoria) became a commonly accepted solution to overpopulation, while embodied folks went about business of their own. However, since the first groups of uploaded individuals tended to be programmers, fancying themselves to be very busy, they quickly evolved ways to fork themselves to work in parallel supporting the network in which they dwelled.

As the network grew and uploading became more popular, more and more individuals joined. Not just programmers, either, but folks of all persuasions. The idea of forking evolved and spread, leading to the concepts of dissolution and merging. Embodied life remained embodied life, but within the network, forking and dissolution became a practice of its own.

### Politics and economy

The more people forked, the harder it became to run the capitalist society that worked along the same lines as the society leading up to it. Currencies collapsed and social structures became unstable as the post-scarcity economy of the network became a reality. In place of a currency representing units of labor, reputation became the primary means of trade.

### Sims

Sims are where uploaded and generated personalities 'live'. Any instance can create a private sim where they will exist alone, but most cohabitate public sims. Think of MUCKs: a public sims are akin to public, interconnected rooms on the MUCK, while private sims are rooms that you `@dig` yourself.

### Dissolution and merge strategies

In the *PS* universe, it's common for folks to split into separate instances through a process called *forking*. The way in which forking is managed is called *dissolution*. Dissolution strategies are not set in stone, and have no set definitions. Rather they're just general trends that have been named and adopted in *PS* culture.

There are three generally recognized dissolution strategies:

Task-based, 'the Taskers'
:   instances are created only as needed for specific tasks and are tracked by a `#core`; as tasks are completed, instances are recycled and their state reincorporated with the `#core` instance. Non-`#core` instances never fork. This is the most common (and most conservative) as it tends to lead to less dilution of self.

Tracker-based, 'the Trackers'
:   instances are created on a whim, as needed, or by accident, and are tracked by a `#tracker` instance; when the instances end (through SIGHUP, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT or other such signals), their state is reincorporated with the `#tracker` instance. Non-`#tracker` instances never fork. This is the more liberal of the two most common strategies, as instances are considered basically independent personae.

Dispersal, 'the Dispersionistas'
:   instances are created on a whim or by accident, but unlike the managed strategies, they are not tracked, or not in a formal way. Instances may receive updates from each other, be friends and meet up with each other, or, rarely, become lovers. Any instance may fork, and reincorporating state is optional. This is the most radical of dissolution strategies, and is often seen as a minority, though actual numbers of personae groups are difficult to count.

When an instance ends, there's the possibility of its state being merged with another instance's (common among the Taskers and Trackers, less so among the Dispersionistas). Merge there are several different merge strategies, and many may be discussed. Although there are trends mentioned below, there's little in the way of direct correlations between dissolution and merge strategies.

There are two generally recognized merge strategies:

* `cherrypicking` --- cherrypicking describes the act of merging only desired portions of the halted instance's sensorium. It's broken down into two substrategies:
    * `experiential` --- common primarily with Trackers, this allows one to pick and choose experiences to merge with one's own instance.
    * `knowledge-only` --- a handy shortcut and subset of experiential cherrypicking, this strategy immediately discards any feelings and memories, leaving primarily pre-digested knowledge to merge. This is most common with the Taskers, who use it for parallelized studying.
* `blithe` --- most common among Dispersionistas, this merge strategy relies on a recursive algorithm which attempts to merge the entirety of instances' sensoria while producing as few conflicts as possible (conflicts, obviously undesirable, tend to lead to neurological sequelae that can cause an instance to crash). There are two primary substrategies which help in automatically resolving conflicts:
    * `theirs` --- when encountering a conflict, the conflicting portion of the halted instance's state is kept.
    * `ours` --- when encountering a conflict, the conflicting portion of the base instance's state is kept.

### Exocortices

Exocortices began as ways to store data in an easily accessible fashion for perusal later --- basically cellphones accessible through a neuro interface --- but the concept later transitioned into memory modules that weren't active until accessed directly. Things you could forget until deciding (or instructed) to remember.

Commit message:

Simplify entering difficult-to-type names, document

about/universe.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: The Post-Self Universe
---

The *Post-Self* universe is far down a timeline from our own. Uploading of conscious entities (sensoria) became a commonly accepted solution to overpopulation, while embodied folks went about business of their own. However, since the first groups of uploaded individuals tended to be programmers, fancying themselves to be very busy, they quickly evolved ways to fork themselves to work in parallel supporting the network in which they dwelled.

As the network grew and uploading became more popular, more and more individuals joined. Not just programmers, either, but folks of all persuasions. The idea of forking evolved and spread, leading to the concepts of dissolution and merging. Embodied life remained embodied life, but within the network, forking and dissolution became a practice of its own.

### Politics and economy

The more people forked, the harder it became to run the capitalist society that worked along the same lines as the society leading up to it. Currencies collapsed and social structures became unstable as the post-scarcity economy of the network became a reality. In place of a currency representing units of labor, reputation became the primary means of trade.

### Sims

Sims are where uploaded and generated personalities 'live'. Any instance can create a private sim where they will exist alone, but most cohabitate public sims. Think of MUCKs: a public sims are akin to public, interconnected rooms on the MUCK, while private sims are rooms that you `@dig` yourself.

### Dissolution and merge strategies

In the *PS* universe, it's common for folks to split into separate instances through a process called *forking*. The way in which forking is managed is called *dissolution*. Dissolution strategies are not set in stone, and have no set definitions. Rather they're just general trends that have been named and adopted in *PS* culture.

There are three generally recognized dissolution strategies:

Task-based, 'the Taskers'
:   instances are created only as needed for specific tasks and are tracked by a `#core`; as tasks are completed, instances are recycled and their state reincorporated with the `#core` instance. Non-`#core` instances never fork. This is the most common (and most conservative) as it tends to lead to less dilution of self.

Tracker-based, 'the Trackers'
:   instances are created on a whim, as needed, or by accident, and are tracked by a `#tracker` instance; when the instances end (through SIGHUP, SIGTERM, SIGQUIT or other such signals), their state is reincorporated with the `#tracker` instance. Non-`#tracker` instances never fork. This is the more liberal of the two most common strategies, as instances are considered basically independent personae.

Dispersal, 'the Dispersionistas'
:   instances are created on a whim or by accident, but unlike the managed strategies, they are not tracked, or not in a formal way. Instances may receive updates from each other, be friends and meet up with each other, or, rarely, become lovers. Those that stick together in some fashion may refer to themselves as a Clade, with their clade names using a common scheme. Any instance may fork, and reincorporating state is optional. This is the most radical of dissolution strategies, and is often seen as a minority, though actual numbers of personae groups are difficult to count.

When an instance ends, there's the possibility of its state being merged with another instance's (common among the Taskers and Trackers, less so among the Dispersionistas). Merge there are several different merge strategies, and many may be discussed. Although there are trends mentioned below, there's little in the way of direct correlations between dissolution and merge strategies.

There are two generally recognized merge strategies:

* `cherrypicking` --- cherrypicking describes the act of merging only desired portions of the halted instance's sensorium. It's broken down into two substrategies:
    * `experiential` --- common primarily with Trackers, this allows one to pick and choose experiences to merge with one's own instance.
    * `knowledge-only` --- a handy shortcut and subset of experiential cherrypicking, this strategy immediately discards any feelings and memories, leaving primarily pre-digested knowledge to merge. This is most common with the Taskers, who use it for parallelized studying.
* `blithe` --- most common among Dispersionistas, this merge strategy relies on a recursive algorithm which attempts to merge the entirety of instances' sensoria while producing as few conflicts as possible (conflicts, obviously undesirable, tend to lead to neurological sequelae that can cause an instance to crash). There are two primary substrategies which help in automatically resolving conflicts:
    * `theirs` --- when encountering a conflict, the conflicting portion of the halted instance's state is kept.
    * `ours` --- when encountering a conflict, the conflicting portion of the base instance's state is kept.

### Exocortices

Exocortices began as ways to store data in an easily accessible fashion for perusal later --- basically cellphones accessible through a neuro interface --- but the concept later transitioned into memory modules that weren't active until accessed directly. Things you could forget until deciding (or instructed) to remember.
